README.md, before:

# discord-bot-core
discord-bot-core is a modular bot for Discord servers

[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm/discord-bot-core.png?downloads=true)](https://nodei.co/npm/discord-bot-core/)

Top features include:
- Completely modular design
- Built-in server-specific permission system
  - You can add people to roles, or link them to server roles.
  - Each subcommand can have a different permission
- Parser with argument types
  - Your command doesn't get called unless all required arguments are present, so you don't need to check that!
- Self-generated help
  - You provide a help string for each subcommand, and the command signature is generated from the argument list
- Simple interface to respond to messages
  - You can just call `e.mention().respond("Hello!")` to generate `@Windsdon Hello!`
- Server-specific databases (or you can make it global)

More documentation to come.

# Getting Started
Install [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/).

[Download](https://github.com/Windsdon/discord-bot-core/archive/master.zip) the current version of the bot, and extract it somewhere.

Using  the command line, navigate to the directory that contains `package.json`, and execute:
```
npm install
```
This will install all dependencies of the package.

Create an account for your bot, if don't have one yet.
Next, create a file named `login.txt` with your bot's Discord login information, following this format:
```
your-bots-email@something.com:your-bots-password
```

and then run
```
node bot
```

It everything went well, you should see something like
```
info: Starting
info: Creating bot instance
info: Generating key
No token provided, and unable to parse 'tenc'. Using login method.
info: Connected as Your Bot - (<some numbers>)
info: Reloading permissions
info: Finished reloading permissions
info: Loading 4 plugins
info: Loading plugin core
info: Added permission * to group 0:root
info: Your auth key is 3a05c5b4c14277e2006a645d389e439cb0c37694c0d193fc558fa1ab32aab79a. Use it to get root privileges.
info: Completed setup for core
...
```

Take note of your auth key, as you'll need it to get root access on your bot.

Send a PM to your bot with `!authkey <your key here>`, and you should see a reply telling that you are now root.

From now on, you can start using your bot! Use `!help` to see a list of available commands.

**Remeber!** You need to enable your bot on a channel to use most commands! Do this by running `!enable`

# Changelog

**v0.6.0**
- Changed callback on `e.respond()` to `callback(err, response)`

**v0.5.0**
- Added `plugins/plugins.txt`
  - Used as a load list
  - Can be used to load modules installed using npm
    - If `plugins/<mod>` isn't a folder, tries `require(<mod>)`
  - Created with plugin folder if doesn't exist
- Renamed plugin constructor to `init` (was `f`)
- Changed the `addCommandControlHandler` interface
  - Renamed to `addCommandHandler`
  - Removed the `data` argument (if you want to pass custom data, we recommend using `async.apply(fn, data)`)
  - New signature: `addCommandHandler(handler, type)`
  - The callback given to the handlers is `callback(err)`
    - If you provide `err.message` and not set `err.silent`, the message is sent to the user
  - Handler signature is `fn(o, callback)`. Properties of `o` are set as they are created. See details bellow.
  - Valid types:
    - `start`: called before anything is processed.
    - `parsed`: called after the parser returns (adds `obj` to `o`)
    - `end`: called after permissions are checked (adds `e` to `o`)
- `onMessage` now runs on a Fiber
- Added `e.deleteMessage([id,] callback)`
- Added `e.getRoles([uid], [sid])`
  - Defaults to e's uid and sid. If uid is `null`, returns all server roles
- Added `e.getRole(rid, [sid])`
  - Make sid `null` or `false` to search globally, otherwise will only search on e's server
- Added `e.roleName(rid, [sid])`
  - Same as above
- Updated help command
  - Now suggest subcommands even if there is a parent command
- Fixed #3 and #6
  - Most `(group, sid)` argument pairs on PluginManager's functions accept the format `group = "sid:group", sid = undefined`
  - Fixed validation on group names
- Message queues are now channel based

```javascript
var o = {
    user: user,
    userID: userID,
    channelID: channelID,
    message: message,
    rawEvent: rawEvent,
    _disco: self, // the current DiscordBot instance
    obj: parsedObject, // the object returned from the parser
    e: e // the DiscordBotMessage object
};
```

Commit message:

Added more options to flags, token support, some commands

README.md, after:

# discord-bot-core
discord-bot-core is a modular bot for Discord servers

[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm/discord-bot-core.png?downloads=true)](https://nodei.co/npm/discord-bot-core/)

Top features include:
- Completely modular design
- Built-in server-specific permission system
  - You can add people to roles, or link them to server roles.
  - Each subcommand can have a different permission
- Parser with argument types
  - Your command doesn't get called unless all required arguments are present, so you don't need to check that!
- Self-generated help
  - You provide a help string for each subcommand, and the command signature is generated from the argument list
- Simple interface to respond to messages
  - You can just call `e.mention().respond("Hello!")` to generate `@Windsdon Hello!`
- Server-specific databases (or you can make it global)

More documentation to come.

# Getting Started
Install [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/).

[Download](https://github.com/Windsdon/discord-bot-core/archive/master.zip) the current version of the bot, and extract it somewhere.

Using  the command line, navigate to the directory that contains `package.json`, and execute:
```
npm install
```
This will install all dependencies of the package.

Create an account for your bot, if don't have one yet.
Next, create a file named `login.txt` with your bot's Discord login information, following this format:
```
your-bots-email@something.com:your-bots-password
```
or omit the email to use the bot api:
```
:your-bots-token
```

and then run
```
node bot
```

It everything went well, you should see something like
```
info: Starting
info: Creating bot instance
info: Generating key
No token provided, and unable to parse 'tenc'. Using login method.
info: Connected as Your Bot - (<some numbers>)
info: Reloading permissions
info: Finished reloading permissions
info: Loading 4 plugins
info: Loading plugin core
info: Added permission * to group 0:root
info: Your auth key is 3a05c5b4c14277e2006a645d389e439cb0c37694c0d193fc558fa1ab32aab79a. Use it to get root privileges.
info: Completed setup for core
...
```

Take note of your auth key, as you'll need it to get root access on your bot.

Send a PM to your bot with `!authkey <your key here>`, and you should see a reply telling that you are now root.

From now on, you can start using your bot! Use `!help` to see a list of available commands.

**Remeber!** You need to enable your bot on a channel to use most commands! Do this by running `!enable`

# Changelog

**v0.6.0**
- Changed callback on `e.respond()` to `callback(err, response)`

**v0.5.0**
- Added `plugins/plugins.txt`
  - Used as a load list
  - Can be used to load modules installed using npm
    - If `plugins/<mod>` isn't a folder, tries `require(<mod>)`
  - Created with plugin folder if doesn't exist
- Renamed plugin constructor to `init` (was `f`)
- Changed the `addCommandControlHandler` interface
  - Renamed to `addCommandHandler`
  - Removed the `data` argument (if you want to pass custom data, we recommend using `async.apply(fn, data)`)
  - New signature: `addCommandHandler(handler, type)`
  - The callback given to the handlers is `callback(err)`
    - If you provide `err.message` and not set `err.silent`, the message is sent to the user
  - Handler signature is `fn(o, callback)`. Properties of `o` are set as they are created. See details bellow.
  - Valid types:
    - `start`: called before anything is processed.
    - `parsed`: called after the parser returns (adds `obj` to `o`)
    - `end`: called after permissions are checked (adds `e` to `o`)
- `onMessage` now runs on a Fiber
- Added `e.deleteMessage([id,] callback)`
- Added `e.getRoles([uid], [sid])`
  - Defaults to e's uid and sid. If uid is `null`, returns all server roles
- Added `e.getRole(rid, [sid])`
  - Make sid `null` or `false` to search globally, otherwise will only search on e's server
- Added `e.roleName(rid, [sid])`
  - Same as above
- Updated help command
  - Now suggest subcommands even if there is a parent command
- Fixed #3 and #6
  - Most `(group, sid)` argument pairs on PluginManager's functions accept the format `group = "sid:group", sid = undefined`
  - Fixed validation on group names
- Message queues are now channel based

```javascript
var o = {
    user: user,
    userID: userID,
    channelID: channelID,
    message: message,
    rawEvent: rawEvent,
    _disco: self, // the current DiscordBot instance
    obj: parsedObject, // the object returned from the parser
    e: e // the DiscordBotMessage object
};
```
